=head1 NAME

BerkDB - Perl extension for Berkeley DB version 2

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use BerkDB;

  $env = new BerkDB::Env [OPTIONS] ;

  $db  = tie %hash, 'BerkDB::Hash', [OPTIONS] ;
  $db  = new BerkDB::Hash [OPTIONS] ;

  $db  = tie %hash, 'BerkDB::Btree', [OPTIONS] ;
  $db  = new BerkDB::Btree [OPTIONS] ;

  $hash{$key} = $value ;
  $value = $hash{$key} ;
  each %hash ;
  keys %hash ;
  values %hash ;

  $status = $db->db_get()
  $status = $db->db_put() ;
  $status = $db->db_del() ;
  $status = $db->db_sync() ;
  $hash_ref = $db->db_stat() ;

  ($flag, $old_offset, $old_length) = $db->partial_set($offset, $length) ;
  ($flag, $old_offset, $old_length) = $db->partial_clear() ;

  $cursor = $db->db_cursor() ;
  $status = $cursor->c_get() ;
  $status = $cursor->c_put() ;
  $status = $cursor->c_del() ;

  $txn = $env->txn_begin() ;
  $status = $txn->txn_prepare()
  $status = $txn->txn_commit()
  $status = $txn->txn_abort()
  $status = $txn->txn_checkpoint()
  $status = $txn->txn_id()
  $status = $txn->txn_stat()

  $BerkDB::Error
  $BerkDB::db_version


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<NOTE: This document is still under construction, so it is likely to
be incomplete.>

This Perl module provides an interface to most of the functionality
available in Berkeley DB version 2.

The reader is expected to be familiar with the Berkeley DB
documentation. The db_appinit, db_cursor, db_open and db_txn man pages
are particularly relevant.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT CLASS

The equivalent of the Berkeley DB function C<db_appinit>. It is only
needed when you want to make use of locking, logging or transactions.

=head2 Synopsis

    $env = new BerkDB::Env [OPTIONS]
             [ -Home         => $path, ]
             [ -Config       => { name => value, name => value }, ]
             [ -ErrFile      => filename or filehandle, ]
             [ -ErrPrefix    => "string", ]
             [ -Flags        => number, ]
             [ -Verbose      => boolean, ]
             [ -LockMax      => number, ]
             [ -LogMax       => number, ]
             [ -TxnMax       => number, ]


Where the OPTIONS consist of any of the following:

=over 5

=item -Home

=item -Config

=item -ErrFile

=item -ErrPrefix

=item -Flags

The Flags option can consist of one of more of the following or'ed
together.

	DB_CREATE
	DB_INIT_LOCK
	DB_INIT_LOG
	DB_INIT_MPOOL
	DB_INIT_TXN
	DB_MPOOL_PRIVATE
	DB_NOMMAP
	DB_RECOVER
	DB_RECOVER_FATAL
	DB_THREAD
	DB_TXN_NOSYNC
	DB_USE_ENVIRON
	DB_USE_ENVIRON_ROOT

=item -Verbose

=item -LockMax

=item -LogMax

=item -TxnMax

=back

=head2 Methods

The environment class has the following methods:

=over 5

=item txn_begin

    $txn = $env->txn_begin() ;

=item errPrefix

    $db->errPrefix("string") ;


=back

=head1 THE HASH CLASS 

The equivalent of db_open with type DB_HASH. Two forms

    $db = new BerkDB::Hash
                [ -Filename      => "filename" ]
                [ -Flags         => ]
                [ -Property      => ]
                [ -Mode          => ]
                [ -Cachesize     => ]
                [ -Lorder        => ]
                [ -Pagesize      => ]
                [ -Env           => ]
                [ -Txn           => ]
                [ -Ffactor       => ]
                [ -Nelem         => ]
                [ -Hash          => ]
                
and this

    $db = tie %hash, 'BerkDB::Hash', OPTIONS

where OPTIONS are the same as for the new constructor. In addition to
the standard set of options (see L<COMMON OPTIONS>) BerkDB::Hash
supports these:

=over 5

=item -Property

Used to specify additional flags.

    DB_DUP

=item -Ffactor

=item -Nelem

=item -Hash

=back


=head2 Methods

See L<COMMON DATABASE METHODS>.


=head2 A Simple Hash Example

    use strict ;
    use BerkDB ;

    my %hash ;
    my $filename = "database" ;
    tie %hash, 'BerkDB::Hash',
                -Filename  => $filename,
                -Flags     => DB_CREATE,
        or die "Cannot open file $filename: $! $BerkDB::Error\n" ;

    $hash{"fred"} = "barney" ;
    $hash{"joe"} = "harry" ;

    untie %hash ;

=head1 THE BTREE CLASS

=head2 Methods

See L<COMMON DATABASE METHODS>.

Btree supports one extra method

    $ref = $db->db_stat() ;

=head1 THE RECNO CLASS

Not implemented yet.

=head1 COMMON OPTIONS

All database access class constructors support the common set of
parameters defined below.

=over 5

=item -Filename

The database filename. If no filename is specified, the database will
be created in-memory, and removed once the program terminates.

=item -Flags

Specify how the database will be opened/created. The valid flags are:

        DB_CREATE
        DB_NOMMAP
        DB_RDONLY
        DB_THREAD
        DB_TRUNCATE

The default is none.

=item -Mode

Determines the file protection when the database is created. Defaults
to 0666.

=item -Cachesize

=item -Lorder

=item -Pagesize

=item -Env

When working under a Berkeley DB environment, this parameter 

Defaults to no environment.

=item -Txn


=back

=head1 COMMON DATABASE METHODS

All the database interfaces support a common set of methods.

=head2 $status = $db->db_get($key, $value [, $flags])

=head2 $status = $db->db_put($key, $value [, $flags])

=head2 $status = $db->db_del($key [, $flags])

=head2 $status = $db->db_sync()

=head2 $cursor = $db->db_cursor()

Creates a cursor object. See L<CURSORS> for details of the methods
available when working with cursore.

=head2 $fd = $db->db_fd()

=head2 ($flag, $old_offset, $old_length) = $db->partial_set($offset, $length) ;

=head2 ($flag, $old_offset, $old_length) = $db->partial_clear() ;

When the "tie" interface is used, reading from and writing to the
database is achieved via the tied hash.

=head1 CURSORS

A cursor is created with the C<db_cursor>


=head2 $status = $cursor->c_get($key, $value [,$flags])

=head2  $status = $cursor->c_put($key, $value [,$flags])

=head2  $status = $cursor->c_del($key, [,$flags])


=head1 TRANSACTIONS

=head1 EXAMPLES

todo.

=head1 HISTORY
 
See the Changes file.

=head1 AVAILABILITY
 
The most recent version of B<BerkDB> can always be found on CPAN (see
L<perlmod/CPAN> for details), in the directory
F<modules/by-module/BerkDB>.

The official web site for Berkeley DB is
F<http://www.sleepycat.com/db>. The ftp equivalent is
F<ftp.sleepycat.com:/pub>. 

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 1997 Paul Marquess. All rights reserved. This program is
free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same
terms as Perl itself.
 
Although B<BerkDB> is covered by the Perl license, the library it
makes use of, namely Berkeley DB version 2, is not. Berkeley DB has its
own copyright and its own license. Please take the time to read it.

The license for Berkeley DB version 2, and how it relates to BerkDB
does need some extra clarification. Here are are few words taken from
the Berkeley DB FAQ regarding the version 2 license:
 
    The major difference is that the license for DB 2.0, when
    downloaded from the net, requires that the software that
    uses DB 2.0 be freely redistributable.
 
That means that if you want to use BerkDB, and you have changed either
the source for Berkeley DB or Perl, then the changes must be freely
available.
 
In the case of Perl, the term source refers to the complete source
code for Perl (e.g. sv.c, toke.c, perl.h) and any external modules that
you are using (e.g. BerkDB, Tk).
 
Note that any Perl scripts that you write are your property - this
includes scripts that make use of BerkDB. Neither the Perl license or
the Berkeley DB license place any restriction on what you have to do
with them.
 
If you are in any doubt about the license situation, contact either the
Berkeley DB authors or the author of BerkDB. See L<"AUTHOR"> for details.
 

=head1 AUTHOR

Paul Marquess E<lt>pmarquess@bfsec.bt.co.uk<gt>.

Questions about Berkeley DB may be addressed to
E<lt>db@sleepycat.com<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

perl(1), DB_File, Berkeley DB.

=cut
